## relnships, WriteOnlyMapped


## in my finchat models.py code
can you explain the relationship code

In SQLAlchemy, relationships are used to establish connections between different models (or tables) in a database. Here's a breakdown of the relationship code:

**One-to-Many Relationships**

- `User` model:
    - `categories: so.WriteOnlyMapped['Category'] = so.relationship(back_populates='creator')`
        - This establishes a one-to-many relationship between a `User` and multiple `Category` objects.
        - The `back_populates` parameter specifies the name of the attribute on the `Category` model that refers back to the `User` model.
    - `transactions: so.WriteOnlyMapped['Transaction'] = so.relationship(back_populates='creator')`
        - This establishes a one-to-many relationship between a `User` and multiple `Transaction` objects.
        - The `back_populates` parameter specifies the name of the attribute on the `Transaction` model that refers back to the `User` model.
    - `budgets: so.WriteOnlyMapped['Budgets'] = so.relationship(back_populates='creator')`
        - This establishes a one-to-many relationship between a `User` and multiple `Budgets` objects.
        - The `back_populates` parameter specifies the name of the attribute on the `Budgets` model that refers back to the `User` model.
- `Category` model:
    - `transactions: so.WriteOnlyMapped['Transaction'] = so.relationship(back_populates='section')`
        - This establishes a one-to-many relationship between a `Category` and multiple `Transaction` objects.
        - The `back_populates` parameter specifies the name of the attribute on the `Transaction` model that refers back to the `Category` model.
    - `budgets: so.WriteOnlyMapped['Budgets'] = so.relationship(back_populates='section')`
        - This establishes a one-to-many relationship between a `Category` and multiple `Budgets` objects.
        - The `back_populates` parameter specifies the name of the attribute on the `Budgets` model that refers back to the `Category` model.

**Many-to-One Relationships**

- `Transaction` model:
    - `creator: so.Mapped[User] = so.relationship(back_populates='transactions')`
        - This establishes a many-to-one relationship between a `Transaction` and a `User` object.
        - The `back_populates` parameter specifies the name of the attribute on the `User` model that refers to the `Transaction` objects.
    - `section: so.Mapped[Category] = so.relationship(back_populates='transactions')`
        - This establishes a many-to-one relationship between a `Transaction` and a `Category` object.
        - The `back_populates` parameter specifies the name of the attribute on the `Category` model that refers to the `Transaction` objects.
- `Budgets` model:
    - `creator: so.Mapped[User] = so.relationship(back_populates='budgets')`
        - This establishes a many-to-one relationship between a `Budgets` object and a `User` object.
        - The `back_populates` parameter specifies the name of the attribute on the `User` model that refers to the `Budgets` objects.
    - `section: so.Mapped[Category] = so.relationship(back_populates='budgets')`
        - This establishes a many-to-one relationship between a `Budgets` object and a `Category` object.
        - The `back_populates` parameter specifies the name of the attribute on the `Category` model that refers to the `Budgets` objects.

By defining these relationships, you can navigate between related objects using the defined attributes. For example, you can access a `User` object's `categories` attribute to get a list of related `Category` objects, or access a `Transaction` object's `creator` attribute to get the related `User` object.


# 11.SQLAlchemy LinKS to check

1.   https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4751923/difference-between-one-to-one-and-one-to-many-relationship-in-a-database



- taking this from resources LSR rep